The sky was already, the air was already full of things going back and forth.
And so we had no choice but to get behind our table and turn it over and we had to respond.
And this went on for a few minutes and about time everybody at our table figured it probably good to get out of there.
So we boogied out the door and about time we're heading out the door, the KKs are coming the other way.
But this was a hell of a food fight.
One of the other things talking about this is I can remember when in my freshman year and my junior year and senior year in the court area, in the spring, you'd be coming out of Duncan, going back to the dorm, and you'd hear people start yelling water fight.
And you'd get back to your dorm, and hellacious water fights would break out between the different sides, the Air Force side, the aircraft side, and the Army, the ground pounder side of the quad.
And you'd even prepare for these things.
In the dorms, there used to be radiator pipes that ran on both sides of the windows.
And what you would do is get bicycle inner tubes.
And you'd get multiple elements and stretch them together and build a pocket in them.
And you could stretch those things almost all the way back to the door.
And you'd get a water balloon and put it in there, and you could aim it right, and you could launch it all the way across the quad.
So you get three or more guys, they pull this thing back, they put the balloon in and let it go, and you see these water balloons just fly it all the way across the quad to the next one.
And of course, people were running down there with buckets of water and everything else.
I mean, those water fights were just tremendous.
And there wasn't a whole lot of interference.
I guess the faculty figured it was a way to let the core blow off steam or something like that.
And nobody ever got hurt.
Nobody ever got hurt.
I mean, no.
I mean, you know, maybe somebody would fall down or something and that sort of stuff.
But this was not a, this was the fun of it.
And, but my senior year, we had a water fight going.
We were in dorm four.
We had a water fight going on, and we had one of the big trash cans full of water on top of the dorm, on top of the end of the dorm that's towards the center of the quad.
And we're sitting on top of the dorm, and we're waiting for some target.
And there was the officer OD that day from the Trigon, and the cadet officer of the day.
This lieutenant from the Trigon was not an Aggie, and had decided he was going to stop the water fight.
Bad judgment.
So he comes in and just so happens he's walking down the center of the quad and cuts across the grass right at the edge of dorm four to go in towards dorm six.
And that was a bad decision because we're up on top of the dorm with this 55 gallon trash can full of water.
And we just emptied it over the side.
And you know,
You lose a lot of authority in uniform when you're all wet.
I don't know who that guy was or where he is today or anything, but we unloaded that thing on him.
And, of course, we disappeared off the roof after that time, you know, so they never found us.
But that was a fun moment.
And how long before you and your buddies discovered steam tunnels?
Oh, freshman year.
Freshman year, absolutely freshman year.
And then throughout the whole time we did that.
We had one guy by the name of CB Wilson.
Yeah, Kerry Wilson, who was an expert at the steam tunnels.
And we would all go down in the steam tunnels and go all over the campus and discover and everything else.
And one of the interesting things about the steam tunnel is you could turn off the water and the electricity to the dorm in the steam tunnels.
And our fish year, I think it was dorm eight.
or dorm 10, can't remember, that was, their outfit was really close to us in standings in the core.
And it was a Saturday morning before a standby inspection.
And we went down there into their dorm at like 4 o'clock in the morning and turned off all our water and all our electricity.
So their alarm clocks didn't go off and all that stuff.
How far, as far as you know, how far could you go in the steam tunnel?
Oh, shoot, you could go all over campus in the steam tunnels.
I mean, you could go, oh, man, we got really lost sometimes and found our way out.
But, yeah, you could go almost all over campus in the steam tunnels in those days.
Now, where did you all enter the steam tunnel?
We'd entered in the dorm, right there at the stairwell in dorm 12 at the bottom.
You could get in the steam tunnels right there.
I've noticed that they've got them all locked off now and everything else.
One of the other interesting things we did is there was another outfit situation like this we wanted to get out.
And so we went down into the steam tunnel and turned off all the water and then had some guys go up in the dorm and take the caps off of all the urinals and then go back down and turn the water on.
Some of these were geysers in the dorms there.
And then that, and then,
God, who was it?
Oh, the water, I can remember it.
The water, we had gotten back and seen it later on.
The water would come down, and whoever that poor sucker was, there used to be, there aren't anymore, but there used to be rooms across from the bottom of the stairs.
I think they turned those into little vending machine areas now, that sort of stuff.
That poor sucker had lived at the bottom stoop, at the bottom of the stairs.
I mean, water just flowed right into his room.
Oh, one other store, one other store, side of it.
Talking about stretching bicycle inner tubes off of those pipes, we have a piss head that did give us a lot of trouble on our fish here.
And so what we did is we got a passkey and got into his room right in the morning before noon formation.
No, it was before noon formation.
And got in there and tied an inner tube to one of these pipes and then tied it to his doorknob.
And it took three of us to get the door closed.
And we're all standing on the wall at Chow, getting ready to fall out for Chow.
And he comes in with an armload of books and sticks his key in the door and opens the doorknob.
And it was almost like one of those cartoons where you see the person disappear and the books are still there.
He grabbed that doorknob and just went into the room and his books just kind of fell to the floor right there.
Did y'all get any punishment?
No, because he didn't know who did it.
And in those days, a sophomore had to know who the fish was.
They couldn't punish the whole fish class.
Junior could.
Junior could take all of you and make you start doing push-ups until you confess, but a sophomore couldn't and so he
Did you ever go to the quack shack?
Did you get sick while you were in Aggie?
Not a lot.
You know, minor stuff.
I think I was in there once, and that's when it used to be over near Cebiza.
They used to have that old hospital over there, Nurse Ibiza, which God looked like something out of the Crimean War or something.
They just leveled it.
Oh, they did?
MSC, did you get involved in MSC activities?
My junior and senior years, I was in Town Hall.
Got involved in that.
Town Hall was where, you know, we'd bring guests to campus.
Did you, were you a part of welcoming any important people?
Brenda Lee.
Hey.
And... Oh, the singer.
Shoot, shoot, shoot, shoot.
I was thinking of his name the other day, and I can't remember it right now.
I can see his face right now.
I'll think about it.
Brenda Lee was the big one.
Brenda Lee was a real sweetheart.
Just as sweet as she could be to us.
And...
She signed a whole bunch of photographs for all the—oh, Johnny Mathis was the other one.
Johnny Mathis was the other one.
But Brenda Lee was just as sweet as she could be, and I could be her escort when she was there, which was a real neat deal.
Did you meet Wayne Stark?
Yes.
Yeah, sure did.
Any impression of him?
He had a different agenda than Earl Rudder did.
He was much more of a liberal mind bent than other things, I think.
You didn't have much direct
No, not much direct.
Because one of the things that, in hindsight, I think he did so, so well, he had an ability to spot a freshman or a sophomore of great potential and draw them out, and then he would get young faculty members and get them involved with these good students and so forth.
Guyon Hall, you went to some movies there.
Went to movies in Guyon Hall.
And what, how did Aggies behave at Guyon Hall?
Oh, just, you know, of course you'd go crazy if it was some girl in the scene or something like that or somebody would make some comment and you'd all yell, but that was about, you know, that was it.
Or do you remember during your four years other celebrity visitors to the campus?
Nothing really stands out.
Politicians or performers?
Of course, there were performers all the time at town hall and that sort of stuff.
Of course, A&M was a pretty out of the way place in those days.
All right, let's describe the student body in general during your four years.
Their attitudes, their values, their geography.
Well, A&M's always been a very conservative place.
I mean, it's kind of the bastion of conservatism or what sure was then and probably still is fairly much now.
You know, you had a mix, particularly early on there, you had a mix of either guys in the Corps or guys who had been in the Corps or guys who had been in the military.
So it was a very conservative place.
And, you know, everybody was pretty gung-ho and everything else.
Urban?
Well, mostly urban.
Probably primarily urban.
I mean, there were two uniforms on campus, either the Corps uniform or cowboy boots and blue jeans.
And a lot of kids from rural environments.
What about income level?
Low, most.
Did it matter?
No.
And that was probably a good thing about it.
I mean, you know, you'd look at the cars out there, you know, that were parking on the campus, and there weren't,
There weren't any BMWs, even if there had been BMWs at the time.
There were none of that kind.
Most everybody had Fords and Chevys.
Occasionally folks had new ones.
Most didn't.
Did it matter what your national ancestry was?
No, not at all.
Did y'all have any nicknames during your era for national background?
Not anything that...
No, not anything I can remember.
Like, do you know the Maltz brothers from Houston?
No.
They're a little older than you.
Very active Jewish.
And in their era, they were nicknamed Jew Boy.
And I said, well, was that?
No, that wasn't a put down.
We were proud to be Jewish.
Well, you know, and that's it.
You know, you would occasionally hear maybe something like that, but it wasn't a put down.
It was just like a tag.
Yeah.
It wasn't done in a derogatory manner.
You know, even when we got some of the first blacks in the Corps,
I remember a kid by the name of Michaud was in the outfit.
Was he in your outfit?
No, he wasn't in our outfit.
God, what outfit was he in?
But I really want to share anything you recall about blacks coming into the Corps when you were there.
There was never anything overtly racist.
I mean, there were comments wondering, I mean, everybody wondered, of course, if they could hack it, where they put in there for a reason, those kinds of things.
But there was never anything...
overtly racist.
And the first, Michaud came in, and he was already a junior, I think.
How do you spell it?
Do you know?
Yeah.
God.
M-A-C-H-E-A-U-X, I think.
I think that's right.
And he came and he was already an upperclassman when he came in.
And so, let me grab that.
We're talking about the student body and attitudes and so forth.
At that point, while you were there, integration begins.
What did you, in general, what did the NM student body think about the admission of black students?
I'm trying to think in all.
I don't know that there was a tremendous... I can remember my sophomore year, we had a black freshman in our outfit.
And he was from Houston, and I used to ride down to Houston with him and his parents.
How was he treated?
He was treated like any other fish.
There was never, ever, I never heard a racial slur
I mean, some guys may have said it in private in the background or something like that, but there was never, ever anything said out in the open.
And even like Michaud that we were talking about who came in as an upperclassman, anybody who came in as an upperclassman into the Corps, you know, was looked down on.
You didn't go through the freshman year and you weren't squat.
But there was never anything done against him.
It was a non-event when blacks came in.
It was a major thing when women came in.
Yeah, now what did the average, what did y'all think about women coming in?
You know, it, the core was the core and the school and everything else and all male and it was,
I guess it was just the change in things.
I do remember that those first couple of women on campus were extremely popular.
Extremely popular.
I mean, those young women must have thought they were in heaven.
If there had been a secret ballot among all the undergraduates then, reckon what the vote would have been?
I don't know of any...
None of my friends were really against it.
I don't know.
Co-education, you mean?
Against co-education.
But the positive feeling would have been far more for integration, wouldn't it?
That would have been an easier majority.
Yeah, I think the majority of people were for integration.
We saw the need for it and that sort of stuff.
I mean, we felt that anybody who came in A&M should be qualified to come into A&M, but I don't
I don't think there was a big negative thing.
And I don't remember a lot of hard... In fact, it's kind of shocked me lately.
I hear from some women who'd gone... In fact, we had a woman here who was class of 67.
And she related a story to me about she was with her father and they met an ag and somehow the story came out
You know, they had a child at A&M or something like that, and then he introduced her as his child at A&M, and this ag just turned around and walked away.
You know, and so I guess some of the older guys really were adamantly, vehemently opposed to it.
I don't know that any of my generation was that opposed to it.
You know, I look at A&M today with the female population.
Of course, walking across that campus is just incredible.
My son, my oldest son, who was class of 99,
call me when he was a fish, and he said, he said, Dad, I walked across campus today and I saw 40 gorgeous women, and they were different from the 40 gorgeous women I saw yesterday.
He had a totally different experience at A&M than I did, let me tell you.
When you all were there, was everybody accepted, and if so, why?
Oh, yeah.
I mean.
Why did you accept all of these other?
Because they were going through the same thing you were.
It didn't make any difference.
You know, particularly, you know, in the Corps, I mean, you didn't care.
Anybody going through that experience, you were going through it together, and they were your buddies.
Has that proved to be important to you?
Yeah.
Since then?
Yeah, particularly the Corps experience.
You know, I've still got buddies here in town that I'm in touch with.
In fact, there was one in my office today who's a classmate of mine.
You know, I mean, we're just, we're tight friends.
But it's just generally being an Aggie, I can, you know, being in the Air Force and being all over the world, and you see somebody with an Aggie ring, and you just walk up and say, howdy, I'm Doug Fryder, class of 67, and I'm so-and-so class of so-and-so, and it doesn't make any difference.
your Aggies.
During that time you were on campus, did you participate in any religious activities?
Yeah, I'm Catholic and I went to church at St.
Mary's at Northgate.
And were there a good number going?
Oh yeah, I mean you couldn't, they had built
We were still in the old church.
The old church, which was on, that's University Boulevard, which was on University Boulevard at the time, and now I think there's a film station.
Yeah, now it's a block back.
And now it's a block back.
They built the new church when I was there, but they had to build the new church because they had to hold so many masses in the old church.
And I can still remember it would be standing room only in the new church on the weekends.
And was there any religious group that was looked down upon?
No, no.
You know, and the thing about it, and I even talk to kids now when I'm recruiting for A&M, talk about the fact that religion is a very important part of the campus.
and that, you know, that religious communities are an important part of the campus and participating in religion and it's surely not something that's frowned upon like it might be on some campuses.
At A&M it's an integral part.
Everybody comes from a pretty conservative God-fearing background
And maybe that has a reason why that A&M has the lowest crime rate of any major university in the nation right now.
That's right.
We talked about football.
What about Reveille?
Was Reveille around much?
Reveille was, yeah, and in fact, two of my classmates gave Reveille three, the Andes brothers.
Steve and Randy Andes, our senior year.
They were from Alaska, and their family got a collie and brought it down and became Reveille three, our senior year.
What was it like to go to a basketball game in G. Raleigh?
Oh, it was great.
I remember Randy Madsen playing down there, and
You know, with the band in there and echoing the sound and everything else, the basketball games were just awesome.
If you could get away and get there.
Yale leaders, did you all respect the Yale leaders?
Oh, absolutely.
And like I may have said earlier, Tommy Stone, who was in our outfit, was a junior and senior Yale leader.
And he was head Yale leader senior year.
Mm-hmm.
And Tommy was just a hell of an individual, just awesome.
Well, quite a few years ago, he passed away.
But Tommy was Mr. A&M.
He was from Donna, Texas, down in the valley, and was just an awesome leader, just incredible integrity, super guy, the epitome of what a yell leader ought to be.
But yeah, and I'm so glad that A&M has kept the yell leaders like they are.
Of all the student leadership positions, which one had the greatest prestige?
If you could have held any student leadership position, which one would have been?
Well, I guess there had been three.
Corps commander, obviously.
Head Yellier and commander of the RVs.
I was not in the RVs because my
There was just no way to work that in with engineering as far as I was concerned.
I would have loved to have done that.
Probably had Yell Eater would probably be the most prestigious.
Did you all have a nickname for Yell Eaters?
I've never heard of one.
No, no, just Yell Eaters.
And one of the questions I try to work in,
Korean War is over, of course.
Vietnam is not yet going.
It's starting, yeah.
But one of the pivotal events I'm assuming that you remember is the Kennedy assassination.
I remember exactly what I was doing when I heard it.
Please describe that.
I was my freshman year.
My birthday was November 21st.
And so my birthday had been the day before.
But I can remember walking.
We were, it was,
God, what was that, a Friday?
It was bonfire time.
And we had had Chow and Duncan, and I walked out of Duncan and was in the process of turning left to go to dorm 12.
And I heard somebody yell out of dorm 10 that Kennedy had been shot.
And that's where I heard about it.
And then, of course, immediately went back to the dorm, and we turned on the radios.
And I can remember all of us just kind of standing.
We were kind of all standing in the hall with the radios blaring in the rooms and listening to it and just kind of in shocked disbelief.
And that had to be one of the most depressing days of my life, that whole weekend.
was just incredibly painful.
And in our yearbook, there's a picture of the center pole, and that was our bonfire.
We were the first class not to have a bonfire until my son's freshman year.
My second son, who's class of 03.
Yeah.
Describe a bonfire for freshman year, freshman year.
Oh, it was just awesome.
What work did you do?
Freshmen carried logs.
Juniors and seniors cut.
Freshmen and sophomores carried.
About how far, where was the cutting area?
What direction?
I'm trying to remember.
I was riding and not driving, so I don't know that I knew where the cutting area was.
I'd just pile into a car at dark 30 in the morning, and we'd drive out to the cutting area.
About how many days, weeks, did y'all work on it?
You worked on and off.
Let me see.
We didn't start the cut as early as it had gotten by 99.
I think it was mostly in November that we did the cut.
And we took off from school and went out and did the cut.
Were there any injuries of any importance that you remembered?
No.
There would be the scrapes and nicks and that sort of stuff, no injuries.
And looking back in hindsight, was there any conduct that was inappropriate?
No.
You'd be out there and, you know, and it was all organized and, you know, we'd spend most of the day carrying logs, throwing them up on the trucks.
Were you and your buddies aware of any secret fraternities?
No.
You're kidding.
You didn't?
I never knew of any secret fraternities.
Which ones were there?
You were involved with Town Hall.
How did you get involved with Town Hall?
Tommy Stone was a major mover in Town Hall at the beginning of our junior year, and he was able to get me in.
Was that a good experience?
Oh, sure was.
Sure was.
A really great deal.
What about Skona?
I was not in Skona.
Is Skona still there?
Barely.
Barely?
It was a mover and shaker at the time.
They used to bring some.
You're talking about bringing people to campus.
Yeah, Scona would bring some.
God, I'm trying to remember some of the people that Scona brought back.
Like about the time that you were there, I remember Hubert Humphrey from Arizona.
Go Water.
I remember them both being there.
Student indulgences.
What did people drink?
Beer.
What kind?
Lone Star.
You know.
And where'd they get it?
Wherever you could, Whiskey Bridge.
Yeah, that's right.
Bradstead County was dry at the time.
Yeah, I can remember driving over to Whiskey Bridge.
And whoever had that piece of property, that must have been a gold mine.
Because you drive across that bridge and there was the whiskey store there, the liquor store.
As far as you recall, were the prices at Whiskey Bridge fair?
Yeah, if I remember correctly.
I don't think he gouged people.
I don't think so.
I mean, he had such a clientele there, you know.
And did anybody that you knew of try to bring alcohol, either beer or stronger beverages, into the dorms?
It was kind of frowned on, unlike today, which I hear they do it a lot today.
But...
It was not, I can't remember that much of alcohol on the dorms.
What about going out to the clay pits?
Oh yeah, going out to the clay pits and drinking out there.
Where were they?
Jesus, and again I cannot remember.
Is it south and west down the Welburn Road and toward the river?
I think it was, but again not having a car I rode along.
And I cannot remember whether, I wish I could.
I'm sorry I can't take it.
And was it all male at the Clay Pits?
I don't remember any girls there any time I went.
And the skinny dipping?
Never, I never did that.
Never did any skinny dipping.
How much whiskey did Aggies consume in that era?
I can remember us drinking until we would buzz.
I don't remember anybody getting, you know, stone-faced, crawling drunk.
Although, here's another story.
When we were sophomores, the rooms that you lived in over there were two rooms and then joined the bathroom in between in those new dorms.
And I can remember one night about 2 o'clock in the morning, about 2 o'clock Sunday morning,
I heard my roommate saying, no, no, his roommate across the hall saying, no, don't move it, don't move it, oh no.
And I woke up and I look in the bathroom and here he is sitting on the floor with his legs around the commode and his arms around it with his head buried in it rocking back and forth saying, no, don't move it.
But that was one of the few times I saw somebody that bad.
Was Uncle Ed's gone by then, Hard Lickers?
Yeah, I don't remember Uncle Ed's.
What about tobacco?
Did many people smoke?
Yeah.
And what did they smoke?
Just, you know, just cigarettes.
What brands?
Camels and Lucky Strikes and that sort of stuff.
Occasionally somebody would smoke a cigar.
And, you know, every once in a while somebody would smoke a pipe if they wanted to seem sophisticated or something like that.
Anybody chew tobacco?
It wasn't as big a deal then.
It wasn't as big a deal chewing tobacco.
Nobody snuffed?
Nobody snuffed.
No, snuff was not a thing then.
Did you all even know the word marijuana?
We knew it existed.
I can honestly, and I've told this to my kids and I don't think they believe me, but I cannot ever remember anybody using marijuana.
Yeah, same here.
It just didn't exist.
It was not a thing at A&M.
It was a communist thing and, you know.
And you hadn't heard the word heroin.
You know, hadn't heard heroin.
Did anybody have any ingenious ways of,
of hiding beer in their room that you heard of?
Uh, no.
Like I say, at that time we didn't have that much beer in the rooms.
I mean, you know, I guess maybe it was because we were an engineering outfit again.
We were pretty plain kind of guys, but, uh, shoot, no.
Alright, you go to summer camp after your... Actually, I went after my
Junior year?
No, senior year.
I actually went after my senior year.
Because it ended up, I was going five years on taking aerospace engineering.
So I ended up going after my senior year and went to Amarillo Air Force Base.
How did an Aggie rate?
Aggies did very well in summer camp.
Why?
Because it really wasn't any big deal.
I mean, for a lot of the other students that were there,
it was their first time to really be in that kind of a pressure environment and really there wasn't that much pressure.
You know, and usually the Aggies, I can remember my roommates, you know, I was showing them how to make beds and how to do their underwear in a drawer and all that other kind of stuff and it wasn't a big deal.
And it was kind of interesting
You know, you learn, you got used to military custom and everything else.
And I can remember being in the headquarters building at summer camp and walking out.
And about the time I started to go out the door, they started playing retreat.
And I walked out and stood at attention and saluted the flag.
And then the commanding officer came out and congratulated me or thanked me for doing that.